doc improvement: matter: add page about configuring tx power (#10289)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/getting_started/transmission_power.rst

.. _ug_matter_gs_transmission_power:

Configuring transmission power
##############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

You can configure the radio transmitter power (TX power) of your device to increase or decrease the wireless communication range of your device.
The radio transmitter power configuration must be modified separately for every wireless technology used in the Matter applications.

TX power settings can have a significant impact on the device's power consumption when :ref:`ug_matter_device_low_power_configuration`.

Default TX power
****************

> The following table lists the default TX power values.

Reviewer: Could we create similar entries for Bluetooth LE and Wi-Fi? It looks like quite generic section, however it describes only Thread and uses Thread-specific names like SED, MTD, FTD.

Reviewer: Ok, it looks like for Wi-Fi it's not a constant value and it depends on several things like frequency band or type of modulation. Nevertheless we could refer to this page: https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/index.jsp?topic=%2Fps_nrf7002%2Fchapters%2Felspec%2Fdoc%2Felectrical_specification.html, Table 3.

Reviewer 2: For each sample, the default BLE TX power is set to 0 dBm ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_0``. There are some differences between the maximum possible values depending on a board:

**For nrf52840dk_52840:**
-  max BLE power is +8 dBm -> ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8``
- min BLE power is -40 dBm -> ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS_40``
- 
**For nrf5340dk_nrf5340 & nrf7002dk_nrf5340**:
-  max BLE power is +3 dBm -> ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3``
- min BLE power is -40 dBm -> ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS_40``
 
Maybe it is worth adding to the table or somewhere else.

|                                                              +--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                              | nrf5340dk_nrf5340        | 0                                                    |
|                                                              +--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                              | nrf21540dk_nrf52840      | 0                                                    |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+--------------------------+------------------------------------------------------+

Changing TX power for Thread
****************************

To change the radio TX power used by the Thread protocol, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_DEFAULT_TX_POWER` to the desired dBm value in a range from ``-40`` to ``20`` dBm.

The following table lists the maximum output power values in dBm for each board.

> The maximum value of 20 dBm is only recommended for devices that are using :ref:`radio Front-End Modules <ug_radio_fem>`.

Author: Skipped as per internal discussion.

> +--------------------------+--------------------------------+

Reviewer 2: We can add information about the maximum power of BLE and WIFI described in a comment above to this table.

https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/index.jsp?topic=%2Fps_nrf7002%2Fchapters%2Felspec%2Fdoc%2Felectrical_specification.html, Table 3

For nrf52840dk_52840:

max BLE power is +8 dBm -> CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8
min BLE power is -40 dBm -> CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS_40
For nrf5340dk_nrf5340 & nrf7002dk_nrf5340:

max BLE power is +3 dBm -> CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3
min BLE power is -40 dBm -> CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS_40

| Board name               | Max TX power (dBm)             |
+==========================+================================+
| nrf52840dk_nrf52840      | 8                              |
+--------------------------+--------------------------------+
| nrf5340dk_nrf5340        | 3                              |
+--------------------------+--------------------------------+
| nrf21540dk_nrf52840      | 20                             |
+--------------------------+--------------------------------+

You can provide the desired value also as a CMake argument when building the sample.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      To build a Matter sample with a custom Thread TX power in the nRF Connect for VS Code IDE, add the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_DEFAULT_TX_POWER` Kconfig option variable and the dBm value to the build configuration's :guilabel:`Extra CMake arguments` and rebuild the build configuration.

>       For example, if you want to build for the ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` build target with the default Thread TX power equal to 2 dBm, add ``-DCONFIG_OPENTHREAD_DEFAULT_TX_POWER=2``.

Author: Skipped as per internal discussion.

      See `nRF Connect for VS Code extension pack <How to work with build configurations_>`_ documentation for more information.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      To build a Matter sample with a custom Thread TX power from the command line, add the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_DEFAULT_TX_POWER` Kconfig option variable and the dBm value to the build command.
      For example, if you want to build for the ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` build target with the default Thread TX power equal to 2 dBm, run the following command:

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- -DCONFIG_OPENTHREAD_DEFAULT_TX_POWER=2

Changing TX power for Bluetooth LE
**********************************

To change the radio TX power used by Zephyr's Bluetooth LE controller, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR` Kconfig option to the desired value.

> However, you cannot set this config value directly, as it obtains the value from the selected ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS_<X>`` or ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_<X>``, where *<X>* is replaced by the desired power value, in an irregular dBm range from ``-40`` to ``8`` dBm.

Reviewer 2: This range is proper for nRF52840 only, for nRF5340 maximum is ``3`` dBm

For example, to set Bluetooth LE TX power to +5 dBM, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_5` Kconfig option to ``y``.

> For the list of possible values for ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS`` and ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS`` Kconfig options, as well as their dependencies, see the :ref:`kconfig-search`.

Author: Very good idea, thanks!

The only exception is the value of 0 dBm, which is set with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_0` Kconfig option.

> For multicore boards, the configuration must be applied to both the application and the network core images in a consistent manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For multicore boards, the configuration must be applied to the network core image.
```

You can do this by either editing the :file:`prj.conf` file or build the sample with an additional argument in the following way:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      To build a Matter sample with a custom Bluetooth LE TX power in the nRF Connect for VS Code IDE, add the desired ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR`` Kconfig option for both the application and the network cores to the build configuration's :guilabel:`Extra CMake arguments` and rebuild the build configuration.
      To build for the network core, make sure to add the ``childImageName_`` parameter between ``-D`` and the name of the Kconfig option.
      The parameter name varies depending on the devices you are building for.
      For example:

>       * If you want to build for Thread devices for the ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to 4 dBm, add ``-DCONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_4=y`` and ``-Dmultiprotocol_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_4=y`` as CMake arguments.

Reviewer 2: I've checked that the maximum BLE tx power for nRF5340 is CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3, and it can be provided only for network core configs. so:

```suggestion
      * If you want to build for Thread devices for the ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to ``3`` dBm, add ``-Dmultiprotocol_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3=y`` as CMake arguments.
```

>       * If you want to build for Wi-Fi devices for the ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to 4 dBm, add ``-DCONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_4=y`` and ``-Dhci_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_4=y`` as CMake arguments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * If you want to build for Wi-Fi® devices for the ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to ``3`` dBm, add ``-Dhci_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3=y`` as CMake arguments.
```

      See `nRF Connect for VS Code extension pack <How to work with build configurations_>`_ documentation for more information.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

>       To build a Matter sample with a custom Bluetooth LE TX power from the command line, add the desired ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR`` Kconfig option for both the application and the network cores to the build command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      To build a Matter sample with a custom Bluetooth LE TX power from the command line, add the desired ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR`` Kconfig option for the network core to the build command.
```

>       To build a Matter sample with a custom Bluetooth LE TX power from the command line, add the desired ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR`` Kconfig option for both the application and the network cores to the build command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      To build a Matter sample with a custom Bluetooth LE TX power from the command line, add the desired ``CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR`` Kconfig option for the network core to the build command.
```

      To build for the network core, make sure to add the ``childImageName_`` parameter between ``-D`` and the name of the Kconfig option.
      The parameter name varies depending on the devices you are building for.
      For example:

>       * If you want to build for Thread devices for the ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to 4 dBm, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * If you want to build for Thread devices for the ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to 3 dBm, run the following command:
```

        .. code-block:: console

>            west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DCONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_4=y -Dmultiprotocol_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_4=y

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
           west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -Dmultiprotocol_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3=y
```

>       * If you want to build for Wi-Fi devices for the ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to 4 dBm, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * If you want to build for Wi-Fi devices for the ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to 3 dBm, run the following command:
```

        .. code-block:: console

>            west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DCONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_4=y -Dhci_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_4=y

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
           west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -Dhci_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3=y
```

Changing TX power for Wi-Fi
***************************

Changing TX power for the Wi-Fi protocol is currently not supported.

Changing TX power for FEM
*************************

Changing TX power for the :ref:`radio Front-End Modules <ug_radio_fem>` is not possible.
You can only change the FEM gain measured in dB.

The TX FEM gain is currently handled automatically by the FEM driver.
After setting the desired TX output power, for example using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_DEFAULT_TX_POWER`, the radio driver configures the FEM gain to reach the desired value.
However, you can disable this feature and set the FEM gain TX power value manually.
For information about how to do this, read the :ref:`ug_radio_fem` page, in particular :ref:`ug_radio_fem_sw_support_mpsl_fem_output`.

> The RX FEM gain is set to 13 dB by default, so the signal received at the antenna port will gain 13 dB and it will be provided to the SoC.

Author: Skipped as per internal discussion.

The following table lists the minimum and maximum output power values in dBm for each board.

+--------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Board name               | Min - max TX power (dBm)                                                                                        |
+==========================+=================================================================================================================+
| nrf52840dk_nrf52840      | -40 to +8 (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS_40` to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8`)  |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| nrf5340dk_nrf5340        | -40 to +3 (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS_40` to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3`)  |
+--------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | nrf7002dk_nrf5340        | -40 to +3 (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS_40` to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_8`)  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| nrf7002dk_nrf5340        | -40 to +3 (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_MINUS_40` to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3`)  |
```

      To build for the network core, make sure to add the ``childImageName_`` parameter between ``-D`` and the name of the Kconfig option.
      The parameter name varies depending on the devices you are building for.
      For example:

      * If you want to build for Thread devices for the ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to 3 dBm, run the following command:

        .. code-block:: console

           west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -Dmultiprotocol_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3=y

      * If you want to build for Wi-Fi® devices for the ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target with a Bluetooth LE TX power equal to 3 dBm, run the following command:

        .. code-block:: console

           west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -Dhci_rpmsg_CONFIG_BT_CTLR_TX_PWR_PLUS_3=y

..

.. _ug_matter_gs_transmission_power_wifi:

Changing TX power for Wi-Fi
***************************

Changing TX power for the Wi-Fi protocol is currently not supported.

> The maximum TX power for Wi-Fi depends on the the frequency band and the modulation used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The maximum TX power for Wi-Fi depends on the frequency band and the modulation used.
```

See `Electrical specification for nRF7002`_ for reference values.

.. _ug_matter_gs_transmission_power_fem:

Changing TX power for FEM
*************************

Changing TX power for the :ref:`radio Front-End Modules <ug_radio_fem>` is not possible.

> You can only change the FEM gain measured in dB.

Reviewer 4: These sentences are a little misleading. 

Maybe just: 

Matter over Thread applications support optional :ref:`radio Front-End Modules <ug_radio_fem>`.
You can control the TX power of the device by configuring the FEM's TX gain.

Author: We also include information about nRF21540 under Bluetooth section. Is phrasing that focuses only on 'Matter over Thread' correct?
